The ocean tide atlas available at this site, called GOT5.5, is
the latest solution in a series beginning with the work described in:

E J O Schrama and R Ray, Journal of Geophysical Research, v.99, p 24799, 1994.
and
R Ray, A global ocean tide model from Topex/Poseidon altimetry: GOT99.2,
   NASA Tech Memo 209478, 58 pages, Sept. 1999.
and
R Ray, Journal of Geophysical Research, 118, 4570-4584, 2013.


There are 16 constituents in GOT5.5, in the diurnal and semidiurnal
bands (and two in the quarter-diurnal).  It is envisioned that the
long-period tides will be handled separately, as they are often produced
separately and reside on different grids.  For that, feel free to use
the constituents provided in the RE14 (Ray & Erofeeva, 2014) directory.
The GOT5.5 minor tides explicitly included are mostly those at the edges
of the diurnal band, where direct estimation was thought superior to that
provided by tidal inference (which involves extrapolation). Generally,
minor tides in the middle of the band (e.g., M1, lambda2, etc.) are
more accurately determined by inference than by direct solution
(although, granted, this gradually changes as the altimeter time series
lengthen).  The perth5 prediction software handles inference.

Three sets of netCDF tide grids are provided.  One set is for the ocean 
tide only, another for the load tide.  A third gives the ocean tide
extrapolated up to 1 arc-degree into land regions, so that (for better
or worse) ocean tide corrections for altimeter users do not go NaN --
but caveat emptor for such corrections!
The load tide is in a CM reference frame and appropriate for
altimeter users; it is defined everywhere, including over land.

An additional fourth directory explicitly includes a bunch of inferred tides,
even though they are not needed by my tide-height prediction software.
However, they are often needed for other purposes; e.g., for GRACE
data processing. If you are using perth5 for tide prediction, just
ignore the "inferred_tides" directory.

Note that GOT5.6 supplements GOT5.5 by providing four constituents
generated by the third-degree terms of the tidal potential, including
the M3 constituent.  All of them are small, although M3 especially
does exceed several cm in a few shelf resonances.

Prediction software for evaluating tidal heights, given a desired 
time and location, has been completely rewritten. It is now a more
flexible and powerful package, capable of handling several different
input formats, any number of constituents, with and without tidal
inference.  It is available here:
/https://codeberg.org/rray/perth5

It should go without saying that these satellite-based data were
developed primarily for use in space geodesy.  They must NOT be used
in coastal (or other) applications risking life or property.  They
should never be used for coastal navigation purposes.

R D Ray, Goddard Space Flight Center                       June 2024
richard.ray@nasa.gov

Updated Sept 2024 to add the inferred_tides directory.
